# DeepMind entry for PCQM4M-LSC

This repository contains DeepMind's entry to the [PCQM4M-LSC](https://ogb.stanford.edu/kddcup2021/pcqm4m/) (quantum chemistry)
track of the [OGB Large-Scale Challenge](https://ogb.stanford.edu/kddcup2021/)
(OGB-LSC).

For full details regarding this entry, please see our [technical report](https://arxiv.org/abs/2107.09422).

## DeepMind PCQ Team ("Quantum")

(in alphabetical order)

- Ravichandra Addanki
- Peter Battaglia
- David Budden
- Andreea Deac
- Jonathan Godwin
- Alvaro Sanchez-Gonzalez
- Wai Lok Sibon Li
- Jacklynn Stott
- Shantanu Thakoor
- Petar Veličković


## Performance

Our final test set performance was achieved by pooling an ensemble of 20 models
(10 folds x 2 seeds). See [technical report](https://arxiv.org/abs/2107.09422) for details.

Each model was trained for < 48 hours using 4x Google Cloud TPUv4 and 1x AMD
EPYC 7B12 64-core CPU @2.25GHz.

Inference takes < 6 hours on 1x NVIDIA V100 16GB GPU and 1x Intel Xeon Gold 6148
20-core CPU @2.40GHz.

# Running our model

## Setup

You can set up Python virtual environment (you might need to install the
`python3-venv` package first) with all needed dependencies inside the forked
`deepmind_research` repository using:

```bash
python3 -m venv /tmp/pcq_venv
source /tmp/pcq_venv/bin/activate
pip3 install --upgrade pip setuptools wheel
pip3 install -r ogb_lsc/pcq/requirements.txt
```

## Download and pre-process data

All the additional features used in training (k-fold splits and conformer
position features) can be generated by running:

```bash
/bin/bash run_preprocessing.sh -r ${HOME}/pcq/
```

Or downloaded using:

```bash
python download_pcq.py --task_root=${HOME}/pcq/ --payload="data"
```

## Reproducing our final results

We have provided pre-trained weights of our final submission (~150 GB worth of
model checkpoints) for convenience, which can be downloaded with:

```bash
python download_pcq.py --task_root=${HOME}/pcq/ --payload="models"
```

Then to reproduce our final results please run:

```bash
/bin/bash run_pretrained_eval.sh -r ${HOME}/pcq/
```

Note that this script does not use the downloaded conformer position features,
and instead computes them for the test set as part of the script.

## Retraining our model

Disclaimer: This script is provided for illustrative purposes. It is not
practical for actual training since it only uses a single machine, and likely
requires reducing the batch size and/or model size to fit on a single GPU.

To train a model, please run:

```bash
/bin/bash run_training.sh -r ${HOME}/pcq/
```

To simply validate that the code is running correctly on your hardware setup,
consider setting `debug=True` in `config.py`, which trains a smaller model.


# Citation

To cite this work (together with our MAG240M-LSC entry):

```latex
@article{deepmind2021ogb,
  author = {Ravichandra Addanki and Peter Battaglia and David Budden and Andreea
    Deac and Jonathan Godwin and Thomas Keck and Wai Lok Sibon Li and Alvaro
    Sanchez-Gonzalez and Jacklynn Stott and Shantanu Thakoor and Petar
    Veli\v{c}kovi\'{c}},
  title = {Large-scale graph representation learning with very deep GNNs and
    self-supervision},
  year = {2021},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2107.09422},
}
```

Our technical report can be found [here](https://arxiv.org/abs/2107.09422).
